[THEME MUSIC]
>>REGINA MEREDITH: Alongside
the Knights of the Round Table,
perhaps the next most intriguing
group of mystical gentleman
were the Knight Templar.
Freddy Silva has been
tracking their history
for more than a decade.
And has written a book
that is altering history--
the First Templar Nation.
We have spoken about the
Knight Templar before,
but now all the
threads come together.
All I can say Freddy
is, well done.
I mean, this was a massive work.
We were just talking off camera.
And there were times I could
only read 20 to 30 pages
in a day, because it's so rich.
It's like, OK, wait a minute.
If these guys were doing
this, and these guys
were doing that, what motivated
these guys to do that.
You know?
>>FREDDY SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean,
absolutely stunning work.
And--
>>SILVA: Well, thank you.
>>REGINA: --it has
taken over a decade.
>>SILVA: I think I lost a lot
of my hair because of that.
>>REGINA: Well, maybe.
>>SILVA: I thought it was
something else, but no.
It was a very rich story.
And--
>>REGINA: It's an
incredible story.
And I'm intrigued with it for
a variety of reasons, which
is why we're going
to have a really
expansive talk about it that's
going to be in two parts.
So I just want to set
that up first off.
But--
>>SILVA: You're twisting my arm.
>>REGINA: --we've seen
little bits of this story
in some of your other
work, as you were making
your discoveries along the way.
Right?
>>SILVA: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: We would talk
about a piece of it here,
and a piece of it there.
And now, as I just said, all
the strings come together.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
I mean, originally
I was just trying
to write a very simple
book about the reason
why the Knights Templar
were so fascinated
with my original
country of birth,
which, of course by my
actions, it's Portugal.
>>REGINA: Portugal.
Of course.
>>SILVA: It's part of the
witness protection program.
And I thought this would
be a nice simple story.
And then I got to this big block
right in the middle of this.
And I thought, why am
I getting this block?
And suddenly, I realized I don't
know part of the story here.
There's something missing.
A big piece of the story.
And it really had to do with the
understanding of sacred space,
which is something that is
something that's not always
associated with the Templars.
>>SILVA: And once I understood
what sacred space really does,
and how it works, and what
the Templars have discovered
on to Jerusalem--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: --then, suddenly
this big window of opportunity
opens up four years later.
And I go, well, that's
what I was missing.
Because now everything starts
to fit in very, very nicely.
>>REGINA: You're right.
It has to do with
the sacred space.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: It has to do with
those incredibly divine
structures where
people have literally
consciousness-altering
experiences.
They were the masters.
They had the knowledge.
And I would argue, it's
been carried forward
this whole story
originated in Atlantis.
And we'll get into
that a little bit
later, because that's the
part that I love about it.
It's this continuation
of passed-on knowledge
that has been secreted away
throughout history until right
now, really.
>>SILVA: Oh, yeah.
>>REGINA: You know, with
the explosion of media.
I think first, let's
start at this one place.
First of all, you
have these stories
that are just so
simplistic they're
like children's
fables, that are aired
on a lot of the networks
about the Templars.
It's just ridiculous to see how
they're still being portrayed.
And in light of your
book, it's absurd.
But still, in the
common mind you
have a feeling that these
were men of valor on one hand,
and the other
sentiment is that these
were bloody and greedy bankers.
So let's talk about
reducing it down.
What were they?
>>SILVA: Well, I mean, that
was a part of the thing that
took so long to begin, which
was what I had the problem with.
Which was, yes, we see them
as bloodthirsty people,
as glory hounds, mercenaries.
Well, that was the crusaders.
The crusaders are
not the Templars.
And that was a big aha.
And suddenly, once you get
to that point in the story,
you begin to realize
that this is going
to get really complicated.
Because what happened
wasn't the period.
We have a moment in
time where the church
is trying to get hold of
Jerusalem back from the Arabs.
This has been an ongoing
conflict forever.
And there was this
moment in time
where they had the
opportunity to actually get
a whole bunch of
people, convinced
them to go down to
Jerusalem, and literally
take over the place.
And it gave permission for
a small group of people,
a close group knit
of people to actually
ride on the back of the
Crusades, almost quietly,
and infiltrate the
Templars of Jerusalem.
And specific structures
in that city--
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: --in order to
do what they were doing.
I had no idea that there was
a kind of a moment in time
where they took the
opportunity to actually get
a handful of men in there
to do something very secret.
Nothing to do with
the Crusades at all.
It was basically
a means to an end.
>>REGINA: And this is--
>>SILVA: Very opportune.
>>REGINA: I was going to say
at every point in the story--
and we're going to start
weaving the story together
in a moment--
there's opportunism.
And oftentimes the
opportunism is born out of--
there's always a need on the
part of one party or another.
Whether it's on the
part of the church
to stop the invasion
of the Arabs,
or whether it's the
same and among the royal
classes in various
countries, there
is a need that has to be met.
And these men, these Templars--
and we're going to talk about
the various kinds of
Templars there were--
really rode that opportunity in
many different ways, perfectly.
You're right.
It's almost as though they were
just sliding along the back of.
But yet they were right at
the middle of everything.
So first of all, let's talk
about how this story differs
from what we see on the History
Channel and other networks.
>>SILVA: Well, that's
not too difficult.
[LAUGHTER]
But basically, the
original story, of course,
is that nine guys
rode all the way
from what today is Belgium,
to go to the Middle East
to protect the pilgrims.
Now, you've got
a stretch of land
which is 33 miles,
filled with brigands,
mountain lions, Saracens,
other-- the very annoyed people
who don't like Europeans.
So you've got nine guys who are
patrolling tens of thousands
of pilgrims.
I mean, this is a
ridiculous concept.
And also, historically-- yeah,
to take the sarcasm out of it,
historically, the
Knights Hospitaller,
which were already
40 years old by then,
they were already in charge
of doing that anyway.
So why do you need nine guys
to go and do what was already
being done by about 5,000?
And doing it very well as well.
Very efficiently.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: So the whole
thing is a big smokescreen.
I think it just got
taken out of context.
>>REGINA: Well, I think we need
to also understand it weren't
just the Knight Templars.
You say "hos-pi-ta-llers"?
Or "hospi-ta-llers"?
How do you pronounce that?
>>SILVA: "hos-pi-ta-leur."
>>REGINA: Oh, "hos-pi-ta-leur."
OK.
[LAUGHTER]
So we have them.
We have the Order of
Sion Knights, right?
And we also have the Knights
of the Holy Sepulcher.
We have the Knights of Malta,
which most of us have heard of.
>>SILVA: It sounds like
it's a Monty Python
movie really, doesn't it?
>>REGINA: It really does.
But it all keeps getting
boiled down to the Knight
Templar, these nine guys.
>>SILVA: Yup.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And actually, all of these
people are all interconnected.
They're all
supporting each other.
And yes, originally
in about 1904--
not 1904-- 1104--
there was a group
of people who did join the
Holy Sepulcher, where Hugues de
Payens, and Godfrey
de Saint-Omer,
the nucleus of what became
the Templars, were residing.
And I think they tried
to start something.
And I was reading a
lot of the surviving
extracts from the time.
And they were having
a really hard time
trying to recruit the
right kind of knight
to do something very important.
Because you keep reading between
the lines, and Hugues de Payens
was really struggling
to find people
who had certain spiritual
angle on things.
They weren't there
to do any fighting.
They rarely did any
fighting at all--
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: --which
was kind of odd.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: Why would a
bunch of very rich people
go 2000 miles to the Middle East
and then not do any fighting,
and also give up
all their wealth
to go and look for wealth?
Doesn't make any sense.
>>REGINA: No.
>>SILVA: And you'd
have to dig up tunnels
as well in
excruciating conditions
to find this alleged wealth.
The whole thing
just doesn't add up.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: So you have a group,
which is the Knight of the Holy
Sepulcher, moving in
just at the time when
Jerusalem is liberated.
At the same time,
you had the patriarch
of Jerusalem, Godfrey de
Bouillon, who basically
installed another
group of knights
in the Church of the
Sion, or Mount Sion,
in a ruined basilica.
And then you have
another group of people,
who are just basically going
in-between connecting the dots.
So it is excruciatingly
difficult
to separate all those people
and find out in the end,
they were all kind
of collaborating.
But still, they had nothing
to do with the Crusades.
It was basically a
big moment in time,
a big window of opportunity.
As though some organization had
been waiting for 1,000 years
to finish what the Assyrians
had started and finished when
the Romans invaded Jerusalem.
And that's really what
the story goes back to.
>>REGINA: OK.
>>SILVA: 2000 years earlier.
>>REGINA: So before we
go there, let's go back
just a little bit further.
And let's go back into the
period you're talking about,
where Burgundy was actually
the center of enlightenment.
Because this is not
something most people
are aware of when we think
of the Enlightenment.
So let's just start
pulling threads together.
And I know people have to
read the book and sit with it,
and re--
just have it as
their companion--
their historical
companion for a while--
to do this well.
But we're going to attempt.
So let's go back to
Burgundy and what
was happening with Burgundy.
And from there, let's segue
into the Merovingian bloodline.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
The time period
we're dealing with
is about the end of the
10th century, 11th century.
And Europe is a complete mess.
I mean, there's people
fighting all over the place.
It's an economy
based on plunder.
Even families are at
each other's throats.
>>REGINA: Barbaric.
>>SILVA: It was really barbaric.
And some of the things
that they were up to
are kind of left
out and edited out.
Because it was entertaining,
but after a while
it gets a bit gruesome.
>>REGINA: Well, we'll get into
a couple of them just to kind
of set the stage--
>>SILVA: Because it's fun.
>>REGINA: --for color.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
A lot of color.
And basically, you had this
nucleus of productivity
where intellectualism
was allowed to flourish.
In the middle of this
you've got the church
that's now become the
main strongman of Europe,
trying to keep down
anything that's
intellectual or spiritual.
Because they have a
monopoly on all that stuff.
They don't want anybody
else to compete.
So suddenly in Burgundy
you have this sort
of modicum of
enlightenment going on,
a renaissance in this
tiny, little county
in what is today France.
And here you have the background
of all the people, all
the families, that
do eventually become
the main players of the
Templar drama, who are also,
of course, related
to the Cistercians,
who have yet to
come on the scene.
And all of these
people, when you
start looking at the
alliances, and what
they were doing in
Burgundy in that time,
they're setting up centers of
education of enlightenment.
They were even working--
they had Arabs and Hebrews
working side by side.
God help us.
Everybody was in
on the same thing.
They were looking for
something much more than
was being provided for by
spiritual people at the time--
religious people at the time.
So they're forming their
own little sort of bulwark
against barbarity at the time.
And in the middle of
all of this you also
have people who are associated
with a very old bloodline
called the Merovingians, who
are now traced all the way back
to Sumeria.
And before that-- and we're
now talking a stretch of 6,000
years--
to the bloodline of the Scythian
culture, who was predominately
living around the Black
Sea, in what today would
be a Transylvania and Bulgaria.
And there is a
connection to Dracula,
which we might get into, but
it's a little of a sidestep.
So this bloodline apparently
came from a divine source.
It was said to come
originally from people
who are half human,
half divine, that
survived the huge catastrophe
on the face of the Earth 11,000
years ago.
And by intermarrying
within their own kind,
they kept this bloodline pure
for the Sumerian bloodline,
for the Troy bloodline.
And eventually they
got into Europe,
and to the Merovingians.
And it literally-- the reason
why they wanted to keep this
bloodline pure is because
a lot of these rulers--
and there was men and women--
they were associated
with being great healers.
They had the ability to see far.
In other words, they had
the ability to be psychics.
They were great teachers.
They believed in improving
people's lot on the land.
They would teach people
how to raise themselves
from a very basic, then
sustainable level, to really
empowering themselves.
So of course, in the middle of
all of this drudgery in Europe,
and this extraordinary control
by the Catholic Church,
this was like manna from heaven.
The Merovingians were
absolutely adored,
as far as I can figure out.
And it's from this basis
that we get the central group
of families in Burgundy that
then become the people who
become the supporters
of the nation, Knights
Templar, and all of
their people around it.
So it's a very complex story.
But it goes back
thousands of years
to a plan that was
laid down before,
that really it was nothing
more than just raising people
from a state of barbarity
into being highly enlightened.
Kind of what we're
looking for today.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
Well-- and I would even argue
the same players keep emerging
over, and over, and over.
>>SILVA: It makes you wonder.
>>REGINA: Well, because I have--
like most of the
planet, I'm very
comfortable with the
notion of reincarnation.
And certain souls have
certain abilities and tasks
that they carry forward
from time to time.
And certainly our DNA follow--
our incarnation patterns
are affected by our DNA.
And we follow DNA lineages.
>>SILVA: Oh, I think so.
>>REGINA: So if we're looking
at it through that lens that I
look at it through,
we're looking at it
as a continuation of knowledge
being inculcated on the planet
Earth, from beings
that have probably
been here well
toward the beginning,
to try to continue to
enlighten during dark times.
And uphold certain
knowledge, and inculcate it
into the population
wherever they incarnate.
And it sounds like that was
the richest place to do this.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
And the more you go
into ancient myth,
the more it becomes
obvious that there's
a pattern going on here.
And it's something I'm working
on at the moment as well.
Looking at myths from the
point of view of a very--
extremely ancient culture.
It's going back to a
time before the flood.
So with the--
11,000 years ago.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: And there is
this recurring connection,
this thread that runs
right in the center
of this extraordinary place
we call Earth and humanity,
which is a big playground
for creativity and stupidity.
And they kind of go
hand in hand down here.
>>REGINA: And when there's
too much stupidity,
these same beings continue
coming back and saying,
OK, guys.
Time to wake up again.
Let's see the little knowledge--
>>SILVA: Been there.
>>REGINA: --until you
screw it up again.
>>SILVA: And they keep
changing their name.
It's like a big PR exercise.
It's just like, well, we can't
call ourselves that anymore,
because we know what happened
when we called ourselves that.
Someone came along
and killed us all.
So we come back
again into the body,
and we now go and call
ourselves something else.
So it's actually quite clever.
It's almost like a big joke.
If you just step away from the
historical angle, and see that,
yes.
There are recurrences where
the same characters appear
to be repeating themselves
again, and again, and again.
>>REGINA: And again.
>>SILVA: And following the
work of Michael Newton,
the psychoanalyst in LA, who
wrote two of the best books
on reincarnation and
life between lives--
we're talking about a
clinical psychologist that's
really going to new-age stuff.
He's not into woo-woo.
He's a literal
clinical psychologist
that deals with drinking
problems, sexual addiction, all
that stuff.
Sit on my couch.
We'll count to 10.
And when you come back to
one I will suggest something.
And you're cured.
And to his surprise,
the patients
were describing
what was happening
on the other side of the veil,
in-between lives, and also
reincarnation.
And the next patient would
pick up the story, entranced.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: Extraordinary material.
And it's great relegation.
>>REGINA: It is extraordinary.
And I've witnessed it, and
experienced it a great deal
myself, as I had a
therapy clinic years ago.
And my specialty was regression.
>>SILVA: Oh, really?
>>REGINA: And yeah.
Because I started
seeing these problems
kept continuing back with people
who were open and spontaneous.
That they were suddenly
somewhere-- not
where we were anyway.
Not at this period of time.
But you'd start seeing
something like what
you were talking about, where
one person would come in
with a--
it's usually a common
malady of some kind.
And you start peeling
back the layers,
and they pop back
to this other time.
Maybe a week or two, or a month
later, another person comes in.
Their story's
cross-validating that.
They don't know each other.
This happens-- anyone that
does regression work sees this.
These stories-- you start
getting a very complex web,
that actually starts reducing
to being able to discern.
Certain periods of history.
Certain things that were
happening at certain points
on the planet at a given time.
And there's a lot of
cross-validation for this.
So I bring it up because I
couldn't look at your story
without looking at
it through that lens.
Because it was just--
>>SILVA: I think
it's a good point.
>>REGINA: --too familiar.
And so if you take all of these,
pre-Diluvian times and such--
again, back to the first
civilizations of Atlantis,
the early Atlantean
civilizations-- technology
was high.
Initially very peaceful times.
You were talking about a
great understanding of all
of these arts and sciences.
It didn't go away.
>>SILVA: And it also ended up
in a very bad place as well.
>>REGINA: They did end up--
>>SILVA: And it always ends
up going left in Albuquerque.
>>REGINA: Well, I mean
that's a long period of time.
And then if we understand
that history is also
running concurrently,
we don't understand
the time frames of history
of our cultures right now.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: I mean, if
you look at Egypt,
if it's true that Egypt actually
dates back 200,000 years,
it was concurrent with Atlantis.
So this knowledge was
always being seeded.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: Right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: There was
emigration all the time,
including to Burgundy,
ultimately Portugal.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Jerusalem.
So we're going to talk
modern history, which
is just the last 1,000 years.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
In fact, if you
actually take away
the names of the various
players, like the Templars,
or the Essenes, or
the Cistercians,
you find that they're
actually the same people.
You'd be talking about the
same people all the time.
They would dress the same way.
They behaved the same way.
They believed in the
same belief systems.
They acted it towards a
certain predetermined goal.
You can't tell them apart.
So it seems to me that, yes--
there is some part of me that
says, yes, there is something
that as though these
people came back to finish
a job from 1,000 years ago.
>>REGINA: And that makes sense.
>>SILVA: It's a
pretty romantic idea,
but it makes sense as well.
>>REGINA: Well, it's just
logical, in my opinion.
And also we have to add
into that blend the Celts
and the Druids.
Right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
All part of the same
tree of knowledge.
Same branch.
>>REGINA: All part of the
same tree of knowledge,
bringing forward the same
knowledge over and over
when times are dark.
Right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Or when times
are about to go dark,
to try to reestablish it
in the minds of people
before the lights go out.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: So that's these
cycles of consciousness.
I mean, they have other words
for it in other traditions.
So--
>>SILVA: Which is,
by the way, they
keep changing their
names all the time.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: It's like a company.
It's like, well, that
didn't work out so well.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: Let's change our
name to something else.
That will work.
>>REGINA: Right.
OK.
So now let's return to--
we've set up a little bit about
what was happening in Burgundy.
At the same time,
we had some monks.
And there was the Order of Sion
that ultimately came to be.
Let's make some kind of--
draw some kind of line
between these, and explain
who these monks were.
And explain the
place they inhabited.
And how this starts
figuring into the story.
>>SILVA: Oh, the Order
of Sion was fascinating.
And I have to give credit to
Baigent, Leigh, and Lincoln.
Because they really
sort of found
that out when they were writing
"Holy Blood, Holy Grail," which
actually helped me a
lot in my understanding
of bringing all these
confusing things together.
And it turns out that there was
a group of monks that suddenly
moved from all the
way from Calabria,
which is in southern Sicily.
They've moved all the
way up to Europe--
not exactly easy back then--
and they found themselves
in this particular place
that was run by Canossa
Matilda the Tuscan.
And basically she gave
them a plot of land.
And they said,
thank you very much.
And they built themselves
a nice, little cathedral.
And then, about 20
years later, they just
buggered off down to Jerusalem.
I was like, you just don't just
move halfway across Europe,
build yourself a big
church, and then leave it,
and go off 2,000 miles
to play somewhere else.
>>REGINA: There's some
motivation, though, behind it.
>>SILVA: Extraordinary
motivation.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: And it
turns out that they
were grooming a very young
man, who, in time, would become
the first patriarch of
Jerusalem, who then, in turn,
installed the monks in the
rundown basilica on Mount Sion,
where they became known
as the Order of Sion.
And they were claiming that
all that they were saying
was, we have come back to
basically finish a job that
was begun a long time ago.
There's a certain
part of a bloodline
that we're protecting here.
And a certain tradition
that we're protecting.
And it's important to bring
that back into play now
with the things that
are happening in Europe.
In our time, That
window of opportunity
that has been missing for
1,000 years because of war,
religious warfare, and
all of these things
that have been going on,
this is the best moment
we've ever had for 1,000 years.
So it's a very dramatic
moment in history,
where suddenly this pent-up
frustration of bringing back
a holy bloodline in Europe to
undermine the Catholic Church
is now in play.
And that's when
the Templars also
show up at the very same
moment in Jerusalem.
So you have these people sort
of going backwards and forwards
between the two churches.
You have the monks
with the Order
of Sion in their
little rundown basilica
just outside the
gates of Jerusalem.
And you have the nucleus of
what will become the Templar
order in the Holy Sepulcher.
Talking backwards and forwards.
And there is actually a deed
that I found that shows that
the Piieur of Sion is actually
interacting with Hugues de
Payens, the leader
of the Templars.
And saying that good relations
exist between our two orders.
Now this is at least 10 years
before the Templars have
been made official,
which shows you
if they're saying that
there's an organization,
or a good relationship
between the two orders,
the Order of Sion
and the Templar Order
must already have been
existing as early as 1104.
>>REGINA: Well, and this says--
one of the documents
I noticed in your book
said the Order of Sion--
it was founded in 1090.
>>SILVA: Quite possibly.
>>REGINA: Even earlier.
>>SILVA: Yes.
>>REGINA: So this changes
the historical record
in terms of when the
Templars even came to be.
So this was all
mounting long before
the common historical
records recognize.
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
In fact, one of the best
things that my history teacher
taught me when I was 11.
The only thing that stayed
in my head in school
was the fact that
if you want to look
at the true story behind
anything in history,
go back 50 years.
Because that's when
things really begin
to rise out of the ground.
>>REGINA: Let's rise.
>>SILVA: The root of things.
>>REGINA: Yes, absolutely.
>>SILVA: And that's
what I basically did.
I said, how far back
can I take this?
And yes, you had these
monks that moved suddenly
in the middle of nowhere, to
the other middle of nowhere,
to establish a relationship with
a young boy who then becomes
the patriarch of Jerusalem.
And In the meantime, you
have all the founding players
of the Templars making
family connections
in that part of Europe.
And making friends with the
monks, or making friends
with other influential people,
who, them, in 20 years--
and they were in no hurry
to do this, by the way.
20 years later--
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Long-term thinking.
Right.
>>SILVA: --the players
suddenly come together
in a fortuitous moment in time.
So it's a beautiful plan, but
they were very, very patient.
>>REGINA: And there's one
thing, as you just said.
This kind of an
uninhabitable land almost.
I mean, rough land.
Not the prime
picking, so to speak.
This keeps coming
up again and again
throughout the Templar story--
is when they're offered
vast tracts of land,
that they would often choose
what appeared to be subpar--
>>SILVA: Very had ones.
>>REGINA: --really bad lands.
They'd choose the bad lands.
And again, now let's
go back to Sion.
Because now we get into the
story of telluric energy.
Ley lines.
Energy rising from
certain areas that
make certain states of
consciousness possible,
that are desirable to
build certain edifices on.
Right?
So let's go back to
that-- as you say,
kind of rundown basilica.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
It's a very strange
situation, where
you have the guy that's
now running Jerusalem--
>>REGINA: Well, let's
talk about that.
>>SILVA: Brigands
are running around.
There's a lot of annoyed Arabs
running around, because they've
just lost their capital.
So of course, they're
going to try and get it.
So what does the patriarch do?
Oh.
Instead of living in the really
safe haven inside the walls
of the city, I'm
going to take refuge
in a rundown basilica
outside the walls
to the place where we
can be basically killed.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: It doesn't
make any sense.
And of course, you go back
in history and you find out--
and we're now talking
thousands of years--
of the continuous
creation of temples,
and sacred buildings
in specific hot spots.
And we now know today, by
matching myth, tradition,
and technology, that all of
these ancient sacred sites
are all built on the earth's
electromagnetic pathways.
Specifically the
junction points.
What we call node points,
or even navels of the Earth,
if you want to go that far.
And these hot spots
have the ability
to alter human consciousness.
This is now a proven fact.
We can even measure the
energy that we don't feel,
that we can see.
And this is why
these places were
very important to
this group of people.
Because when you follow
the Templars story, even
the Cistercian story,
the other group
that were fundamentally
behind the Templars,
they always chose these
very unusual locations.
And when you go
and look at where
they built their
buildings, yes, there
is something very
telluric about them.
There's a different
feel about them.
And that's what was part of
this spiritual technology
that they were
trying to rediscover.
They weren't looking for money.
They were looking for a
spiritual treasure, something
that would help them overcome
the problems of the period,
which of course is barbarity.
They wanted to-- they
can rise up the spirits
to come forward again.
So they would choose really
inhospitable places that
used to be temple places,
or sacred places that had
been run down because of war.
So it starts to
make sense when you
start seeing the picture from
the bigger point of view.
And why they went
through so much trouble
to find places that,
frankly, I wouldn't
give $0.05 for this building.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: But I
want that building.
Why?
Because it worked.
>>REGINA: And some of them
had not been developed before.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And yet
they understood
the nature of what the
land itself was about.
Although to the outside
world it would look like,
oh, these humble ascetics.
They'll eschew the
palace they were
given for this badlands
track of dirt over here.
>>SILVA: I know.
>>REGINA: And in fact, that
was just a public perception.
No.
It wasn't just out of humility.
It's they knew
what was going on.
>>SILVA: I know.
>>REGINA: And yet, no
one else did around them.
Not the Royalty.
Not the church.
No one around them
knew what was going on.
They didn't possess
that knowledge.
>>SILVA: I mean,
they were humble,
but they also went beyond that.
>>REGINA: That's exactly--
>>SILVA: Given the choice
between having a bed of straw,
now they will live in a hovel
underneath the staircase.
You know.
>>REGINA: We're going to
talk about those characters
in a minute.
I love it.
OK.
And the interesting thing
was that particular abbey--
and we're going to find this
out throughout the story--
the great days where
documents were signed,
or campaigns were begun,
often, or many times,
were in honor of the feast day
of either John the Baptist,
or Mary Magdalene.
So all of it seemed to hook
back into a period 1,000 years
earlier, and the bloodline?
Right?
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: And that abbey was
dedicated to John the Baptist,
as I recall.
Is that correct?
>>SILVA: The one in Mount Sion?
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: To Mary.
>>REGINA: Oh, that was Mary.
OK.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And let's
talk about that.
>>SILVA: The other one
was actually-- yeah.
There was a place also where
the Knights of St. John
were in Jerusalem, which you'd
think has to do with John
the Baptist.
But actually it's not.
It's to do with St. John
[INAUDIBLE] of Cyprus,
who also gave up his
wealth to become--
>>REGINA: Right, right.
Right.
>>SILVA: Poorer of spirit.
I mean poor of pocket.
>>REGINA: So let's
go back to Our Lady.
Chapels being dedicated
all over to Our Lady.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: OK.
And again, the bloodline.
And how these people that
gathered at that rundown abbey
were affiliated with that.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
I'm surprised that
no-one's picked up
on this, even a lot of
the Templar historians.
Because everybody
equates the Templars
with the Catholic Church.
But they never dedicated any
of their buildings to Jesus.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: Doesn't that
sort a little bit odd?
>>REGINA: That's what
I found interesting.
>>SILVA: Alarm bells should
be ringing at this point.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: For example, in
Portugal, where the Templars--
we'll talk about
this in a second--
where they created the
country, every single thing
that they built was dedicated
to Mary Magdalene and John
the Baptist.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: Setting up all
of their civil calendars
on the feast day of either.
There's something that
should be looked at here.
And it was the same thing--
whether it was in Jerusalem,
in France, and in Portugal,
they were always
following this connection.
And it turns out
that when you start
looking at the lineage going
all the way back, that they were
protecting a certain bloodline.
And this is one of
the things that I
was amazed during my research.
I came across this--
actually, it was a
massive, massive book.
It was so big.
About that thick.
No index, of course.
So I wasn't quite sure
what I was looking for.
But somewhere on page 680
there is a swearing-in ceremony
of the grand master of
the Templars in Portugal
that declares to protect
the bloodline of David.
Now, you're not going to
put that in the swearing-in
ceremony unless they're
there to protect a bloodline.
So one of the central
themes of the Order of Sion,
who basically the people that--
I won't say bankrolled
the Templars,
but they were
certainly fundamental
in creating the
original Templars.
And most of the
Templars, apparently,
were also members of
the Order of Sion.
And that was revealed
in secret dossiers
that were found by Henry
Lincoln and company in Paris.
And that these documents that
were put there deliberately
showed that the Templars
and the Order of Sion
basically were the same people.
Or that the two organizations
were so intertwined.
And the Order of Sion's
declared aim was always
that we are here to resuscitate
the bloodline of David.
And also the bloodline that
was split from the Sumerian
culture, through the
Egyptian culture,
and eventually find its
way into central Europe.
This is the rightful bloodline
of the divine kings and queens,
who were leading people
up from the ground.
To give them a ladder
up in the state of life,
which is what the Catholic
Church wasn't doing.
Because they supported
the Carolingians.
And the Carolingians,
essentially
had a big coup in
the middle of Europe.
They had basically run down
the Merovingian bloodline,
and drove it underground.
Because they held
the biggest secret
of all, which was the true
story of what was happening
with the true Christian
brotherhood of Jesus,
Mary Magdalene, the fact
that they were married,
the fact that there's a
family relationship with John
the Baptist, which to this
day the church has denied.
Because they even denied the
fact that John the Baptist even
wrote a book, which
is a bit inconvenient,
because the Mandaeans which live
today in southern Iraq, saying,
we are the original followers
of John the Baptist.
And we still read from his book.
Because he was the true
Christian brotherhood.
And--
>>REGINA: He was a mystic.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
He was the priestly messiah.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: And the bloodline
was always with the priest.
Whether it was a
man or a woman--
doesn't matter-- the bloodline
stayed with the woman.
But sometimes the priestly
portion of the bloodline
would be a man or a woman.
But Jesus was the king version.
He was almost like the PR
version, the front man.
And that everything else
was done behind the scenes
not to attract attention.
The church couldn't
have that, because they
base their version of events
on Jesus being a messiah.
That's where they
got it really wrong.
And since then they've
been backpedaling,
trying to hide and
cover up the story
that it was the lineage
of the Magdalene
that was more important.
And hence, there are where
the Templars come in.
They suddenly come
into this section, work
with the Order of Sion,
and the two of them
were trying to
resuscitate this bloodline
to bring back the spirituality
of people in Europe.
This is one of the reasons
why the church wants
to do away with them.
And that starts to
make a lot of sense.
>>REGINA: It does
>>SILVA: Why was the
church so against them?
>>REGINA: It is.
And it's interesting,
because now,
even in common-day
thinking about--
and especially in conspiracy
circles about bloodlines,
it's immediately given
a dark connotation,
as though there's
something to hide.
It's a controlling force.
It's never given the
benefit of having
been a bloodline through which
these entities can incarnate,
to start uplifting
again and again.
That keeps being pasted over
with these other stories.
>>SILVA: Kind of
extraordinary, isn't it?
But the evidence is there.
You go all the way back
to the House of Troy.
And then you go further back to
Sumeria, where the bloodline--
and in fact, the original
mention of the Grail
appears in Sumeria,
in the song of Inanna.
And you start looking
at the priestesses who
are protecting the bloodline.
And they wore the
red robe of office.
So the priestesses had the
highest level of officialdom
in-- let's call it "religion,"
for the sake of a better word.
I don't like using
"religion" because it
has all kinds of
negative connotations.
I'll say it's
spiritual religion.
And the priestesses
had the highest role
in the actual temple.
Because they were in
charge of initiations
to do with the raising of
a personal spirituality.
And it was part of a ritual
called the raising of the dead,
or the living resurrection
as they called it.
And so the women wore
the red robe of office,
called "ritus," which is what
we get the word "rituals" from.
And it was a red robe.
So that's where the concept
of the woman in red comes in.
So fast forward 3,000 years
late with Mary Magdalene,
with the woman wearing the
red robe, what happens to her?
She gets basically
mislabeled as a prostitute.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: Since then, we've been
having a problem with women
wearing the color red.
>>REGINA: Right.
Jezebel.
Yeah.
>>SILVA: So the whole thing
has turned on its head,
because they were trying
to basically put this whole
concept of the women priests
who were carrying this bloodline
for the development of
the personal spirituality,
and a personal
connection with God--
not through a priest,
but through a priest
helping the individual
find themselves,
and that connection.
>>REGINA: Again.
Yes.
>>SILVA: And that was
what was very important.
The church was all against that.
There's a bunch of guys
who said, oh, no, no, no.
We can't have that.
We have a job
creation scheme here.
We want to do that.
And if we've people find
their own spirituality,
well, we're out of a job.
It's really that simple.
That's what it comes down to.
>>REGINA: It is that simple.
I agree with you.
OK.
So we're going to kind
of move away from Sion.
But the root word
"tzion--" T, right?
T-Z-I-O-N is-- and this caught
me in the book as well--
a spiritual point from
which all reality emerges.
>>SILVA: Yup.
>>REGINA: Now how
does that concept then
play into what you just said?
Again, bringing these
telluric points together,
these people coming to these
places with this knowledge.
Right?
>>SILVA: Oh.
The Sion is fascinating.
You find this
throughout Arabic text,
throughout early Christian
text, Mandaean text.
Everybody was talking about it.
And it's discussed as
a kind of cornerstone,
which has to be the cornerstone
of the actual temple, which
literally forms the
foundation of the temple.
But what they were
talking about--
and they always talk in
metaphors and symbols
in these moments,
which is where we
get in some really deep
arguments about what's
right and wrong.
Once you start looking
at this information,
literally, you've lost the plot.
All of these people, in
order to protect themselves
and the truthfulness of what
they were trying to say,
they veiled everything
as a metaphor.
So Sion was essentially
the metaphor
for the sort of creation
of the universe.
The central point
in the universe
from where all life starts.
And from there,
once you understand
what that point does, you're
now in a very even platform.
Because if you understand
the creative points
of the sort of creation,
in all of its multiplicity,
now you can figure out
how everything else
falls into place.
If we don't understand that
you are clutching at straws.
You're getting something is
right, something is wrong.
So the points associated
with the concept of Sion
become literally the hot spots,
where this creative energy
manifest on the
face of the Earth.
And this is something
that science now knows.
That there are certain
spots on the face
of the Earth where energy and
gravity behaves very subtly
different.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: And that has
an effect on your body.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: So once you
connect with that energy,
now you have become in contact
with the concept of Sion, which
is the central point of
creating the universe.
Because ultimately,
we're not that distant
from the creative
center of life.
It's a concept that
we here on Earth
are so far away from the
center of the universe.
But we're not, really.
Physics now knows that if you
can find the right wormhole
you can be there in
a blink of an eye.
So that's what they
were tapping into.
A very old sort of
wisdom and understanding.
Of allowing you, as a physical
body, to leave that body,
connect with the final
level of reality,
and connect with a source where
you can actually understand
how things truly are.
Not how they're perceived.
That's what religion
does, you see?
You get to the point of
the counter perception.
And you get into arguments, and
then you kill people over it.
But if you understand
what the true concept
of the point of
creation is about,
and what science
stands for, now you're
really learning something.
You're way ahead of the curve.
>>REGINA: Right.
I found that fascinating.
>>SILVA: That's amazing.
>>REGINA: It is.
OK.
So I'm going to just side-track
a little, tiny bubble
of a story I may have mentioned
before, because now maybe it
makes more sense.
OK.
John the Baptist.
He is credited at
this point in history
from hailing from a little
town called Ein Karem outside
of Jerusalem, right?
>>SILVA: Mm-hmm.
>>REGINA: Up in the hills.
And he was known to be a rebel.
He was known to be a mystic.
>>SILVA: He was a punk.
>>REGINA: He was a punk.
He was known also to be a loner,
and had great, vast stretches
of time and vision alone.
And he is credited
with, of course,
the work he did in terms of the
initiations, baptismal well.
But also, his seeing And
there's a little cave there
in Ein Karem.
And there is now a monastery
built around all of this.
I went into the monastery,
went into the cave.
I had an experience that-- and
I've mentioned this before--
one of the top few
experiences of my life.
Unexpected.
This incredible download with
these archetypal characters.
All this was coming through from
the Egyptian period of time,
though.
>>SILVA: Hmm.
>>REGINA: Which again--
you already mentioned that.
We're hopscotching through time.
That was thousands
of years prior,
depending on the dynasty,
to John the Baptist.
1,000, 2,000 years prior to him.
So again, hopscotching through.
And I was downloaded with
massive amounts of symbolism
and information
from Egyptian times,
sitting in John
the Baptist's cave.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
>>REGINA: Shocked
down to my tootsies.
Like what is going on here?
>>SILVA: I know exactly
what you're saying.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
And so--
>>SILVA: This is why
these places were chosen.
They're just not a cave.
It's a specific place
on the mountain where
the laws of physics are
slightly different to get
you to have that experience.
>>REGINA: I just sat down
and it was happening.
It's so prominent in that area.
Again, opening into
these other periods,
and these other energies.
So--
>>SILVA: I think he's the most
important person in the Bible,
actually.
And so little time--
it's funny how so little
is devoted to this guy.
And yet, he's so
huge, so prominent,
in the whole, big
scheme of things.
And all the peoples
around the era
of the time of the
gnostic Christians--
which is what I was also part of
the understanding of the book,
which was why were the gnostic
Christians being killed
by the Catholics.
Although fundamentalist
Christians
that there were at the time
didn't make any sense, well,
the gnostic Christians, and all
the other sects of the period,
all believed that
John the Baptist
was the man to go look at that.
He's following a
very old tradition.
In fact, his name,
Johannes, goes all the way,
etymologically, back
to Oannes, who is one
of the created gods of Sumeria.
The fish man-- half
man, half fish.
And what were they
interested in?
The first portion of
your initiation ceremony
is ritual baptism through a
very special type of water.
There's something
potent about this water.
And where John the Baptist
did his ceremonies was
in a place called the
place of crossing,
where there is four
rivers across--
on this sacred mount--
and where the telluric
lines of the Earth
also are granted to that water.
That's something that
NASA discovered recently--
that the Earth's magnetic
lines are attracted
to certain parts
of the world where
a specific type of water--
a very clear and clean type
of water-- exists.
So it builds up this
numinous energy,
which then develops a numinous
state of quality within you.
So he was following
a very old tradition
of manipulation of energy, you
know, for a spiritual purpose.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
Absolutely.
That still exists to
this day, I would argue.
>>SILVA: I find it fascinating.
>>REGINA: OK.
Now we're going to hop
through a little bit
of the history of the region,
and the Moors who had invaded.
And essentially, the
living conditions.
And then the rag-tag
assembly of people
that became the "crusade."
>>SILVA: Oh, my God.
>>REGINA: And so, we talk
about poor, ignorant.
Talk about bloody.
So I would like you to launch
into the Palestinian story.
First of all, the Arabs
invaded Palestine.
It sounds like in
the seventh century.
So you take it
forward from there,
and set the stage for
what was going on.
All these people
from Portugal over
were basically on the
defensive the whole time,
because the Arabs had made
such incredible progress
into their lands.
>>SILVA: Exactly.
And then it got more complicated
because the Arabs are
fighting amongst themselves.
I believe there was just
this mass-- it was almost
like a Monty Python thing.
It's so funny.
>>REGINA: Just give us a
massive movement of Arabs,
and where they had come in.
Starting in the seventh
century, or even before,
what their movement
basically resulted in,
in terms of the takeover
of certain lands and such.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
They began to basically
fight amongst themselves.
And eventually the Sljuq
Turks became the top dogs
in the situation.
And they were
particularly barbaric.
I mean, these were
barbaric times,
but they were
particularly barbaric.
So I had to edit a
lot of the stuff out.
And so you had this
sort of fighting that--
this tide that goes in and
out between different factions
of people.
Especially around the Balkans,
and around Constantinople,
where the actual territory
is always shifting hands,
accordingly, from one
decade to the other.
Sometimes even less.
You'd be getting invaded
by different armies
of different people with
different beliefs almost every
other week.
It became so confusing.
So after a while, what happened
was that the Sljuq Turks really
sort of took over
the Palestinian area,
and grounded themselves.
And became like a bulwark
against any other kind
of religion.
And so there's a
lot of frustration
between all the
Christians in Europe
who were-- depending on who
was in charge in Jerusalem,
there would often be given safe
passage to the holy places.
But when the Turks took over it
was like, no, no, no, no, no.
Unless you pay us a lot
of money, a lot of gold,
we're basically
going to gut you.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: And there was
all the gutting going on--
>>REGINA: Literally.
>>SILVA: --literally gutting
going on, on both sides
of the fence, to
the point where if--
any pilgrim that was
caught in the wrong time
at the wrong place
they'd be captured.
They were put in a square.
And that the ones
that didn't die
from exhaustion,
and from beatings,
they were used for
target practice.
Live target practice.
And after that
there were tortured.
In the meantime,
you had the priests
egging on all the Christians--
>>REGINA: Oh, that part.
Just like in this religious
order, egging the peasant
soldiers on by telling
them that the Arabs would
swallow their riches--
their coins and
their jewels, right?
So they'd have to cut them open.
>>SILVA: So they'd have to
cut them in their bellies,
and probe in the entrail--
>>REGINA: A good way
to motivate them.
>>SILVA: --to find out where
these riches were buried.
I mean, the image
is so horrific.
And it was happening
on both sides.
Everybody had lost the plot.
They were basically
looking after something
that was no longer spiritual.
They were looking
after something
that was now material.
It was all about
material wealth.
It's kind of like the Aztecs,
who also lost the plot.
And the Maya kept the plot,
because they saw the--
>>REGINA: Oh,
distinctly different.
>>SILVA: Yeah.
They saw the whole
thing as a metaphor.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: You don't
take this literally.
It's a metaphor.
They're tools to aid your
spiritual development.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: And that's where Europe
also got it wrong as well.
Ironically, around
the same time period.
>>REGINA: Interesting.
>>SILVA: Yes.
>>REGINA: Well, now as the
incursion of the Moors or Arabs
occurred in Jerusalem--
as I understand it
from your book, the only
area that was not taken over
was the Christian
sector, which was
where the Church of
the Holy Sepulcher is.
Which, to this day, is still
in the Christian quadrant
of Jerusalem.
Right?
>>SILVA: Yeah.
>>REGINA: And so
how did that remain
protected amidst all of this?
>>SILVA: A lot of the
people who began--
again, it depends on which
decade you're talking about
and who is in power.
But it seems to me, from
the surviving documents,
that a lot of the Arab
people who were actually
in control of the whole of the
Palestinian and Jerusalem area,
they was actually
very enlightened.
And they recognized that the
only way this problem would
ever solve itself,
because the location is
so important to so
many different people,
is to give access to everyone.
Everyone is equal.
But once in a while
the story changes.
Because you got
someone else that
comes in, and has lost
the plot, and they
want to basically
control the whole thing
for their own political aims.
>>REGINA: Yes.
And this is interesting.
Again, this is where
the story is nuanced.
Because, again,
within Arabic culture
was a very high understanding of
some of the spiritual teachings
you're talking about.
Mathematics, geometry,
sound, music.
And they brought-- the higher
factions brought that with them
to that region as well.
>>SILVA: And the Templars
picked up on that
because they were
friends with the Arabs.
They all got along just fine.
>>REGINA: Right.
>>SILVA: And the
gnostic Christians.
They got along just fine with
the Arabs and the Muslims.
And that they basically
brought all this understanding
into Europe.
So it's thanks to the
Templars, essentially,
and the Cistercians, who
basically brought this in
via, and through, the
construct of Gothic cathedrals.
>>REGINA: I was
just going to say.
>>SILVA: It's essentially--
the Gothic art
is essentially the mirror
image of the Arabic art.
>>REGINA: Exactly.
>>SILVA: So they were
light years ahead--
the Arabs were.
Because they had already had
contact with the Libraries
of Alexandria.
They'd come from that tradition.
They'd come from the
Mandaean tradition.
People who were literally light
years ahead of anybody else.
And they used the
Templars as a way
to actually put
this into Europe.
So there's a
wonderful connection
between all of these people.
And a lot of documents
support the concepts.
>>REGINA: At the higher levels.
>>SILVA: At the very high level.
>>REGINA: But when you
go down to the masses who
were hungry, and
educated, it doesn't
matter what side you're on.
It's just ugly.
>>SILVA: It's survival.
>>REGINA: It's just survival.
>>SILVA: And it's also
dogma, and it's also--
>>REGINA: It is.
>>SILVA: --propaganda.
>>REGINA: Now--
>>SILVA: Kind of
like today, actually.
>>REGINA: Like today.
So let's bring the church in.
What was the pope's motivation,
then, for the Crusades?
And let's talk about
how these rag-tag--
this rag-tag
assemblage occurred.
Because this is where
some of the characters
start entering in.
Some of these
wonderful characters,
like Peter the Hermit.
[LAUGHTER]
>>SILVA: Peter the
Hermit, it turns out,
was one of the
original monks that
went, or vowed to take
care of this land that
was given to them.
He was one of the members
of the Order of Sion.
So it turns out that he was
actually the spiritual guide
to this young guy to become the
first patriarch of Jerusalem.
So talk about a
long relationship.
I always believed that the whole
idea for the pope encouraging
hundreds of thousands of
people to march on Jerusalem
was just the liberation
of the Holy Sepulcher.
I thought, OK.
Because we're now in a decade
where the Turks are not
allowing anybody in.
The Christians are not
being allowed in unless they
pay a lot of money.
And a lot of them
didn't even survive
getting to the Church
of Holy Sepulcher.
I can buy that.
But then I read something else.
That there was a lot of trouble
going on in Constantinople,
where the Emperor Comnenus who--
real untrustworthy guy.
I mean, this guy had a
multiple personality disorder.
It turns out that
he was friends--
in fact, the only friend
that he had was the pope.
And I think he persuaded the
pope to send an army his way,
to Constantinople, to fight
the Turks-- to remove them
from his land so they can
basically invade Turkey.
Or what would become
Turkey later on.
I think that that was part of
the motivation for the pope
actually going to the Holy Land.
There may have even been
two different concepts
going on here at the same time.
It seems as though
the army was sent over
to help Comnenus get
rid of his enemies.
But then they thought,
well, while we're here
we might as well get all
the way to Jerusalem.
It took him forever.
It took him years.
They were under the
impression that they would
take him a couple of weeks.
I have a letter from one
of the knights saying,
yeah-- they're
writing to his wife.
Oh, we're going to be in
Jerusalem in a couple of weeks.
Three years later
they finally arrived.
So it tells me that
the plan appears
to have changed on route.
Now, when the deed is
done and they finally
do get to Jerusalem, it
seems to me that the--
it took a while for
the pope to recognize
that there was something else
going on in Jerusalem, where
there's a group of guys who
are doing something very, very
mysterious.
And when you do something
behind closed doors
you want to know
what's going on.
So the pope was always five
steps behind this small group
of people--
about nine or 11
people-- or 11 Templars.
I've come to the conclusion
that there were actually
11 original people,
for good reason.
And there's documentation
to back it up.
But he was always
behind the times of what
the Templars were really up to.
Because by the time the
Templars are officially
ordained by the pope
in 1128, well, the news
has really been
out for a long time
that the Templars have been
around for at least 20 years.
Everybody is going, well, that
was a really boring story.
We know about the
Order of the Temple.
They've been around for years.
So the pope was trying
to get in on the act.
He was trying to muscle in on
what they were looking for.
Because the idea was that
they found this big treasure
underneath Temple Mount.
Of course, to most
people treasure
brings up money, riches, gold,
which brings up the point
again--
why would a bunch of
nobles travel all the way
to the Holy Land to dig tunnels
in inhospitable conditions
to look for money?
>>REGINA: When they
came from money
and they had already
disavowed it.
>>SILVA: Stay at
home, keep the money,
put your feet up, and sit by
the fire and read a good book.
It's not difficult
to understand.
>>REGINA: So aside
from these royals,
which have given it all up,
which are there searching
for something mysterious
under the Temple Mount--
which of course, the debate
still rages to this day
in certain ways--
you have other
characters that enter in.
Extreme ascetics such
as Peter the Hermit.
Now how does he start
factoring into this story?
>>SILVA: Oh.
They're all into
extreme asceticism.
They're trying to
out-asceticize each other--
>>REGINA: Oh, my God.
>>SILVA: --if that's
even an adjective.
I mean, they're literally
trying to outdo themselves
at being more poor
than anybody else.
>>REGINA: I'm sleeping on straw.
Well, I'm sleeping on dirt.
Well, I'm sleeping in a bog.
>>SILVA: I'm going to
sleep in the woods.
They were quite funny.
I mean, there's Walter
the Penniless as well.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: All these
people suddenly
renounced their
worldly possessions
to go on this spiritual journey.
And Peter the
Hermit, it turns out,
was actually very
central to the story.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: Because he was one
of the original founders
of this Order of Sion,
that is so mysterious.
And eventually, when
the Crusades end up
in Jerusalem, and the Templars,
and the Order of the Knights
of the Holy Sepulcher,
he basically
is given charge of
most of Jerusalem
when they basically go off and
do whatever they were doing
quietly outside of Jerusalem.
In terms of the Crusades,
it was mopping up the land,
and getting rid of
their Arab enemies.
And on the other side,
there was another group
of people doing something
else very secretly.
So it turns out he was actually
a very important person
in the big scheme of things.
And he eventually
decides to take back
what he learns, in terms of
spiritual angle in Jerusalem,
and goes back to
Europe and founds
his own particular school,
based on the principles
of John the Baptist.
So here's a guy
who has written--
he's like a little minuscule
sideline in history.
And yet, he is so important
in the big scheme of things.
>>REGINA: Who had a lot
of influence and power.
It sounds like he
was revered, and had
great levels of respect--
>>SILVA: Oh, very much so.
>>REGINA: Among the
high and low circles.
>>SILVA: He was the top.
>>REGINA: Plucking
hairs off his donkey--
[LAUGHTER]
--just to have a
little piece of him.
>>SILVA: He was
so holy that they
plucked the hairs off his mule.
I get the vision
of watching that.
I mean, it's like, do
you want my autograph?
No.
We want a hair off your mule.
It's hysterical.
But no.
He was.
He was revered because he was
actually walking the talk.
He was doing real Christianity.
Not what the Catholic
Church had turned it into.
And that's why he
was appreciated.
Because there was
an undercurrent
in Europe of people
who understood
the real message
of Christianity,
which is not the
message that was
being promoted by the church.
Not in any way imaginable.
This is why I never confuse
Christianity with Catholicism.
The two are very
different to each other.
In fact, early
Christianity is almost
like a version of Buddhism.
Zen.
Not dissimilar.
Not dissimilar from
esoteric Islam, either.
They're all pretty
much the same thing.
So he was actually
practicing this.
He put his life on the line, put
his money aside, and actually
went there.
And he nearly died on
the way to Palestine.
Ironically, the guy that
picks him up off the ground,
literally, finds his emaciated
body on the road to Jerusalem,
is Godfrey de Bouillon--
>>REGINA: That's who I was
going to ask about next.
>>SILVA: --the young man who
was taught by Peter the Hermit.
It sounds like-- the whole
thing sounds like a premeditated
plan--
>>REGINA: Ohh.
I love it.
Can I read--
>>SILVA: --because
I think it was.
>>REGINA: I'm just going to read
some of his traits just to--
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
This could take an hour.
[LAUGHTER]
>>REGINA: No, this
is his resume, right?
Godfrey-- "God-fray"
de Bouillon, right?
>>SILVA: Godfrey de Bouillon.
>>REGINA: OK.
"Tall, blond, bearded, pious,
humble, gentle, generous.
A model knight.
Virtuous."
Really, it almost sounds like
the Knights at the Round Table.
Combination of Lancelot
and Arthur, right?
"He was named King of Jerusalem,
but actually refused."
So let's go on from there.
Let's talk about who this
character was, because he's
so central to the story.
>>SILVA: It turns out--
I think that-- and there
are echoes of this.
And again, when you're
dealing with something
as precious as the
holy bloodline that
has been persecuted for
1,000 years in Europe,
you don't draw
attention to yourself.
But again, it's something
that I brought up in the book,
and that Henry Lincoln and
company had also brought up
in the "Holy Blood,
Holy Grail"--
was that there are echoes
of the fact that Godfrey de
Bouillon appears
to have been part
out of this holy bloodline.
Why else were these monks sort
of moved halfway across Europe
to groom a young
man, who had become
the custodian of Jerusalem?
Because when you actually look
at the paperwork that survives,
it turns out that when the
initiation ceremony was done
to put Godfrey on the
throne, and his brothers--
because he died
there shortly after--
they were all--
>>REGINA: He was
poisoned, right?
>>SILVA: --done.
>>REGINA: He was
poisoned, right?
>>SILVA: Um--
>>REGINA: Was he poisoned?
>>SILVA: No.
He died a normal death.
The others were poisoned.
>>REGINA: Oh, the
others were poisoned.
>>SILVA: Although it
gets very confusing.
>>REGINA: I'm confused.
But go ahead.
>>SILVA: I know.
It's very confusing.
They all died.
>>REGINA: Oh, they died.
>>SILVA: Everybody dies.
But the ceremonies were
always conducted on land
owned by the Order of Sion.
>>REGINA: Yes.
>>SILVA: And it was always said
that Godfrey owed his throne
to the Order of Sion.
And it's something you
hear again, and again,
throughout the
Templars story as well.
Not just in Jerusalem,
but also in Portugal.
They owed their position
to the Order of Sion.
So they owed him a favor.
Not as though their--
they have to have
sort of paid him dues.
But they are obligated to
repay a certain favor in order
to keep a certain
connection, and transaction
going between the two groups.
And I found that
very interesting.
So it turns out
that here we have
the inklings of a bloodline
that was kept very quiet,
very on the ground.
And suddenly, window of
opportunity comes up.
Oh.
Let's put him in
Jerusalem, and we'll
get the ball rolling from there.
>>REGINA: And how did the pope
and the church relate to him?
>>SILVA: Not well.
They kind of--
I mean, they were sort
of trying to figure out
where this is all going.
Because they tried to put
such a big stamp on top
of the holy bloodline, and try
to miniaturize it to the point
where they would--
these people were described
as great faith-healers.
And also great mystics.
At this point you have a group
of monks sitting in an office.
I believe it was
somewhere in Ireland.
And they were actually
told to create the story
to deminiaturize this
holy bloodline by turning
into fairies, and to
supernatural beings.
That they weren't actually real.
This is where the
concept of the fairies
actually comes from--
in the Middle Ages.
Because fairies are
supposed to be bad people.
If you're affected by
fairies in your dreams,
that's the devil talking to you.
And there are these
supposed people
that come from a
divine source, that
pretend to be humans,
that are bad people
because they associate with
fairies and little people.
And that's those-- the
church's PR department,
what becomes the
Holy Inquisition--
are trying to educate
the public that anything
to do with the holy bloodline--
if you hear about this,
or see anything, you
come and talk to us.
And we'll take care of it.
That's how they worked,
to try and make sure
that the lid was kept firmly on
this people who had the right--
>>REGINA: With the masses.
>>SILVA: --to rule by
divine appointment.
Not the church.
They had inserted themselves
into this position.
And now find themselves in the
terrible position of keeping
track, and a lid on everything.
And of course, the whole
thing was blowing wide open,
because of the
influential people
that had moved into Jerusalem.
And positioned themselves
outside of the church.
They had no control.
The church had no control
over these people.
That's why there were
always five steps
behind what they were doing.
>>REGINA: And also, Godfrey's--
his mission was dedicated
to Our Lady, right?
He was very ordered toward--
>>SILVA: Oh, absolutely.
>>REGINA: --our lady.
>>SILVA: Absolutely.
>>REGINA: OK.
So we just accept that.
Now let's go to Hugues.
And let's talk about how he
interfaces in this story.
Because the way the characters
all come together is very--
it's a tangled web.
It's confusing to me.
>>SILVA: Appropriate.
>>REGINA: Yeah.
>>SILVA: And also
somewhat designed.
Hugues de Payens
was, again, a noble.
He had extensive
connections to people
in Burgundy, who turns
out were all connected
to this divine bloodline.
They were all part of the
offshoots of these families.
And not much is
written about him.
Maybe because it
was never written.
Or because the
information is now lost,
as it tends to be of
the times of warfare.
But what we do know
is that he spent
a lot of his formative
years being groomed by one
of the members of his family.
I believe it was
his grandfather, who
was a great mystic.
And also had a great
appreciation for Arabic
culture.
And he said, actually, my
grandson, the Christian belief
and the Muslim belief--
it is the same thing.
So why don't you go walk
about the Middle East
and discover yourself.
And that's apparently
what he did.
So in 1100 and 1104, we
find Hugues de Payens
suddenly appearing
mysteriously in Jerusalem,
talking to other members of
the-- now the Proto-Templars.
And hanging out with the
people that come from Burgundy.
And Godfrey de Bouillon.
And also a bunch of people
that cruised all the way over
from this county, on the
opposite side of Europe
called Portugale.
They suddenly appear in
Jerusalem at the same time.
A big opportune
moment of meeting
of people, all of whose
roots go back to Burgundy.
So they all stretch
out throughout Europe
all the way to the
far west, and in 1104
they suddenly appear,
magically, in the same place.
All talking to each other.
All have the same
idea of creating
a kingdom of conscience,
as far from Rome
as you could possibly do it.
So you can just imagine
sitting down in Jerusalem--
there's still the
smoldering, ashes of battle--
sitting in a cafe
and going, you know,
it would be such a great idea
if we found the plot of land
somewhere as far away
from Rome as possible,
and create a real true
kingdom of conscience.
Real Christianity.
Real spirituality,
where we could
really embody the ideals and
aspirations of all people.
So that we can
all rise together.
Wouldn't this be a great idea?
And you can just imagine
having this conversation
and going, actually,
I know someone
who just came in on a boat.
They've got a piece of land.
And they come from my hometown.
Really?
Yes.
In fact, they're your cousins.
Really?
And he's my uncle.
And suddenly, all
those people are either
uncles, cousins,
or some relation
to all of these bloodlines.
And all of these
people in Burgundy
who are very influential
in creating organizations
from scratch.
And in 1104 they're
all in the same place,
hatching a big plot.
>>REGINA: And then another man,
a very important character,
Bernard de Clairvaux comes in.
>>SILVA: Oh.
>>REGINA: And so you know what?
We're out of time.
We're going to pick it
up with the development
of this cast of
characters just a little
bit more so that people get
the nature of the group that
had assembled--
>>SILVA: He's the man.
>>REGINA: He's the man.
So we'll save the man for
the next conversation.
So OK?
We'll remember where we are?
Because we're only like
a quarter of the way
through all of
this at this point.
>>SILVA: Oh my god.
>>REGINA: In part 2 of our
story we go back to Jerusalem,
and dig under the Temple
Mount with the Templar.
There's a reason that
kings and popes alike
gave the Templars vast tracts
of land, gold, and silver.
What did they possess?
Meanwhile, you can
go to freddysilva.com
for more of this incredibly
intriguing history.
Until next time, thank
you for joining us here
on "Open Minds."
[THEME MUSIC]